Jacob Klapper: Hi! Welcome to
What's New in Sharing.
My name is Jacob Klapper,
and I'm an engineer
on the Share Sheet team.
Let's dive right in
and take a look
at the new Share Sheet
in iOS 13.
The Share Sheet features a new
preview header at the top.
This makes it clear
what the user is sharing
and allows them to customize it.
The new Share Sheet
also makes it easier
to share quickly
and effortlessly
with the conversation
suggestions row
that predicts who users
will want to share to.
Finally, the new actions list
offers a clear delineation
between apps and actions
and puts users' favorite actions
at the top for easy access.
Now let's talk about
how you can take advantage
of this new design to enhance
your users' sharing experience.
First we'll talk about
customizing the preview header
in the Share Sheet.
Then we'll go over opting in
to conversation suggestions
for your messaging app.
And finally, we'll review
some best practices.
So, let's talk about how
to configure a preview header
in your Share Sheet.
iOS 13 introduces
the LinkPresentation API
that allows you to present
rich links in your app.
UIActivityViewController takes
advantage of this framework
to display the preview header
in the Share Sheet.
This makes it clear to the user
what they're sharing
from your app.
As an added benefit,
when users share via Messages,
the link preview
in the transcript
will match the one
from the Share Sheet.
This adds continuity to
the users' sharing experience.
Let's take a look
at the preview header in Safari.
It looks pretty good right now,
but the Share Sheet had
to fetch the website information
to be displayed in the header.
Let's watch again.
It's not right
for the Share Sheet
to have to fetch
this information,
because Safari
likely has it already.
To accelerate the preview,
Safari can use
UIActivityItemSource
to give the Share Sheet
LinkPresentation metadata
to be displayed in the header.
This is an example of the
new ActivityViewContoller
link metadata method
on UIActivityItemSource.
First, create
an LPLinkMetadata object.
Then set the originalURL
and URL properties.
Set a title and iconProvider.
And finally,
return the metadata.
Let's see what the preview
header looks like now.
As you can see,
all the information
was available immediately,
and the Share Sheet
didn't have to do
any additional
metadata fetching.
Now let's talk about
the new conversation suggestions
in the Share Sheet.
Conversation suggestions
allow users
to effortlessly send content
to specific recipients
without having to type
their names.
While conversation suggestions
utilize SiriKit Intents,
you do not need to add
a SiriKit UI Extension
or provide Siri support
for suggestions to work.
The conversation suggestions
row is conveniently placed
at the top of the Share Sheet
so users will be able to launch
your share extension
with a simple tap.
Let's talk about how to opt in
your messaging app's
share extension to suggestions.
Donate INSendMessageIntents
on message sends from app
and share extension.
In order to provide users
with a richer experience,
make sure to populate
as many fields as possible,
including, but not limited to:
recipients, speakableGroupName,
and conversationIdentifier.
When your share extension
is launched,
the intent property
on NSExtensionContext
will provide information
about the conversation
to populate your UI with.
The final step is to add
INSendMessageIntent
to the IntentsSupported array
in your share extension's
Info.plist
Let's take a look at an example
INSendMessageIntent donation.
This function should be called
every time a user
sends a message
in your app or share extension.
A conversation identifier
helps the Share Sheet
identify the recipients
or groups
that will be receiving
the message.
The group name
will be used to display
the conversation
in the Share Sheet.
In this case,
the participants array
is an array of INPerson objects.
Each INPerson should have
a display name and an image
so users can easily spot them
in the Share Sheet.
Finally, create an INInteraction
using the sendMessageIntent.
Set the direction as outgoing,
because the user is sending
the message in this case.
Finally, donate the interaction.
The IntentsSupported array
should be inserted
in the NSExtensionAttributes
dictionary
in your Share Extension's
Info.plist.
Make sure INSendMessageIntent
is listed as one
of the supported intents,
or conversation suggestions
will not be enabled
for your extension.
Once you have completed
all of the steps
to opt in your share extension
you will begin to see
suggestions
for recipients linked
with your share extension.
The suggestion features
a contact or group image
and display name,
along with your app's icon,
so your users can easily
identify it.
Now let's finish up by going
over some best practices
for the Share Sheet.
First, let's talk about
how to optimize
your action extension icons
for the new actions list.
First, icons should be
40 by 40 template images.
They should be outlined glyphs
without fill
to match the system icons.
When possible,
use SF Symbols or symbol images.
To do this,
add the CFBundleSymbolName key
to your action extension's
Info.plist.
Next, let's talk about card UI.
New in iOS 13,
share extensions will be
presented as form sheets.
If your share extension requires
full-screen presentation,
you can opt in using
the NSExtensionShareWants
FullScreenPresentation key
in your extension's Info.plist.
Most extensions
shouldn't need this,
but a good example
of one that would
is an extension
that needs to use the camera.
Finally, I want to go over
some new behavior
for share extensions in iOS 13.
Share Extensions
are now displayed
using their containing app's
display name,
not the extension's
display name.
If your app has multiple
share extensions,
it will be difficult for users
to differentiate them.
Because of this,
your app should limit itself
to a single share extension.
If your app had multiple
share extensions previously,
you can consolidate them
into one by adding an options UI
to allow your user to select
which functionality they want
when they launch
your share extension.
Thank you for joining me
for What's New in Sharing.
For more information,
please visit
developer.apple.com.